README.MD, before:

# jgol - Conway's Game of Life in Java

This library implements a cellular automaton called
[Game of Life, or, simply, Life](https://www.conwaylife.com/wiki/Conway%27s_Game_of_Life)
as defined by J. Conway.

## API
Interface `com.voidaspect.jgol.GameOfLife` is the main entry point.
It provides access to the game's grid and methods for game's progression.

### Progression Configuration
Actual implementation is flexibly configured via `com.voidaspect.jgol.game.GameOfLifeBuilder`.
It supports optional thread safety as well as parallel calculation of next generation.

Parallel progression is implemented by splitting the grid into chunks and dividing those between threads.
It is used when the number of cells reaches the `parallelizationThreshold`, which is, by default, equal to
**1 000 000 (1 million)**.

Each chunk, by default, is a **square 1000x1000** region of the grid.

### Grid configuration
Game's state is an object that implements `com.voidaspect.jgol.grid.Grid` interface.
It represents the notion of a two-dimensional grid with two states for each cell.

Implementation can be flexible: grid can be strictly finite or circular, in-memory or persistent etc.

It supports read and write access and allows to count live neighbors of a cell.

Cell on a grid is defined by two indices: `row` and `col`.

For example, `com.voidaspect.jgol.grid.PaddedInMemoryGrid` uses a two-dimensional array of type
`boolean[][]` to store cell values. 
This implementation is optimized for speedy neighbor-count calculation and is suitable for most cases,
although for a particularly large grid it will require a lot of heap memory.

### Progress Listener
`com.voidaspect.jgol.listener.ProgressListener` interface allows client to process events when game progresses.

It supports 4 events:
* progress started (game started to calculate new generation)
* cell spawned (dead cell had exactly 3 live neighbors)
* cell died (live cell had less than 2 or more than 3 live neighbors)
* progress finished (new generation created)

Thread safety is desirable for `ProgressListener` implementations.

Commit message:

removed parallel progression (forEachAlive makes it impractical - will rework it later)

README.MD, after:

# jgol - Conway's Game of Life in Java

This library implements a cellular automaton called
[Game of Life, or, simply, Life](https://www.conwaylife.com/wiki/Conway%27s_Game_of_Life)
as defined by J. Conway.

## API
Interface `com.voidaspect.jgol.GameOfLife` is the main entry point.
It provides access to the game's grid and methods for game's progression.

### Progression Configuration
Actual implementation is flexibly configured via `com.voidaspect.jgol.game.GameOfLifeBuilder`.
It supports optional thread safety

Each chunk, by default, is a **square 1000x1000** region of the grid.

### Grid configuration
Game's state is an object that implements `com.voidaspect.jgol.grid.Grid` interface.
It represents the notion of a two-dimensional grid with two states for each cell.

Implementation can be flexible: grid can be strictly finite or circular, in-memory or persistent etc.

It supports read and write access and allows to count live neighbors of a cell.

Cell on a grid is defined by two indices: `row` and `col`.

For example, `com.voidaspect.jgol.grid.PaddedInMemoryGrid` uses a two-dimensional array of type
`boolean[][]` to store cell values. 
This implementation is optimized for large dense grids.

For sparse grids, `com.voidaspect.jgol.grid.HashGrid` is preferable.

### Progress Listener
`com.voidaspect.jgol.listener.ProgressListener` interface allows client to process events when game progresses.

It supports 4 events:
* progress started (game started to calculate new generation)
* cell spawned (dead cell had exactly 3 live neighbors)
* cell died (live cell had less than 2 or more than 3 live neighbors)
* progress finished (new generation created)

Thread safety is desirable for `ProgressListener` implementations.
